= mongo_followable

Now works for both Mongoid and Mongo_Mapper!

== Installation

In console:
  gem install mongo_followable
or in Gemfile:
  gem 'mongo_followable'

== Notice

Please read following documentation first. Since 0.3.2, some apis have been changed. Sorry for the inconvenience.

If you want to remove `follow_history` and `followed_history` fields totally from your database after you decide not to use follow/followed history feature, do this:

    # in the rails console, taking user as an example:
    User.all.each { |u| u.unset(:follow_history) } # this will remove the follow_history field

== Usage

To make model followable you need to include Mongo::Followable into your model; You also need to include Mongo::Follower in your follower model:
  class User
    include Mongoid::Document  #for Mongo_Mapper users, this line of code should be include MongoMapper::Document
    include Mongo::Followable::Followed
    include Mongo::Followable::Follower
    include Mongo::Followable::History # you have to add this line to enable follow/followed history
  end

  class Group
    include Mongoid::Document  #for Mongo_Mapper users, this line of code should be include MongoMapper::Document
    include Mongo::Followable::Followed
    include Mongo::Followable::History # you have to add this line to enable follow/followed history
  end

I've decided to remove authorization because it is quite inefficient to keep this field for every record in the database.
However, it's possible that I'll add it back as a plugin in the future.

And then you can follow and unfollow:

    @group = Group.new
    @group.save

    current_user.follow(@group)
    current_user.unfollow(@group)
    current_user.unfollow_all

    current_user.follow(*array_of_objects_to_follow) # follow an array of objects
    current_user.unfollow(*array_of_objects_to_follow) # unfollow

or,

    @group.unfollowed(current_user)
    @group.unfollowed_all

It's also possible to pass a block:

    current_user.follow(u1, u2, u3, u4...) { |user| user.name == 'Jeremy Lin' }
    current_user.unfollow(u1, u2, u3, u4...) { |user| user.followee_of? @kobe_bryant }

    @group.unfollowed(u1, u2, u3...) { |user| user.ever_follow.include? @some_user }

You can also judge whether a model is a follower of another model or a model is a followee of another model:

    current_user.follower_of?(@group)
    current_user.followee_of?(@group)

or whether a model is following some other model and vice versa:

    current_user.following?
    @group.followed?

Moreover, it's easy to get a model's follower/followee count:

    current_user.followers_count
    current_user.followees_count

Of course, you can get a list of followers/followees:
    	
    User.followers_of(@group)
    User.followees_of(@group)

    @group.all_followers
    @user.all_followees

Getting a model's followers/followees by type is also possible:

    @group.followers_by_type("user")
    @user.followees_by_type("group")

Dealing with model names:

    @group.followers_by_type("user")
    @group.followers_by_type("User")
    @group.followers_by_type("user_post") # both are fine
    @user.followees_by_type("GroupPost")

And their count:

    @group.followers_by_type("user")
    @group.followers_count_by_type("user")
    @user.followees_by_type("group")
    @user.followees_count_by_type("group")

You can also get a model's follow/followed history:

    @user.ever_follow
    @group.ever_followed

or to tell if ever follow/followed by someone:

    @user.ever_follow? @some_group
    @group.ever_followed? @some_user

Sure you can clear the histories:

    @user.clear_history!

    #or more specific:

    @user.clear_follow_history!
    @group.clear_followed_history!

Another feature is to get a list of models which has the most followers/followees:

    User.with_max_followees
    User.with_min_followees
    User.with_max_followees_by_type('group')
    User.with_min_followees_by_type('group')
    Group.with_max_followers
    Group.with_min_followers
    Group.with_max_followers_by_type('user')
    Group.with_min_followers_by_type('user')

Now you can tell if two models have some common followers/followees by following methods:

    @user.common_followees?(@another_user)
    @user.common_followers?(@group)

And see what the common followers/followees are:

    @user.common_followees_with(@another_user)
    @user.common_followers_with(@group)
    
* Any bug or issue, please send me an email: ustc.flyingfox@gmail.com
                                                  include Mongo::Followable::History # you have to add this line to enable follow/followed history
== TODO

* inter-models followable #FINISHED#
* divide into two parts: followable(being followed) and follower(following others) #FINISHED#
* following history/followed history #FINISHED#
* most/least followed/following #FINISHED
* add authorization to followable models #FINISHED#
* common followers/followees #FINISHED#
* add support for mongo_mapper in next version #FINISHED#
* implement plugins: confirmation, authorization etc.

!!If you have any advice, plese do not hesitate to tell me!!

== Thanks

Thanks the author(s) of acts_as_followable, you can find this gem here[https://github.com/xpepermint/acts_as_followable]

Thanks the author(s) of voteable_mongo, you can find this gem here[https://github.com/vinova/voteable_mongo]

== Copyright

Copyright (c) Jie Fan. See LICENSE.txt for further details.    
